The gods reward the devotion of their champions. The strength of your devotion to your god is measured by your piety score. As you increase that score, you gain blessings from your god. Piety has nothing to do with faith or belief, except insofar as a person's thoughts and ideals drive them to action in a god's service. 
When you choose a god to worship as a beginning character, your piety score related to that god is 1. Your piety score increases by 1 when you do something to advance the god's interests or behave in accordance with the god's ideals. The gods expect great deeds from their champions, so your piety score typically increases only when you accomplish a significant goal or make a significant sacrifice on your own self-interest. 

The gods bestow favors on those who prove their devotion. When your piety score crosses certain thresholds you gain a benefit details in the sections describing the gods' champions. (DM info only, soz <3)

Not every hero chooses the life of a divine champion. Leonin, in particular, are known for rejecting the worship of gods. If you don't devote yourself to a god, you don't have a piety score and you gain no rewards for piety, but you don't suffer any negative consequences. 
The Iconoclast supernatural gift offers a way for characters to gain benefits similar to rewards for piety without being devoted to a god.

If events in your character's adventuring career warrant you to change gods, you can abandon service of one god and turn to a different one. Once you abandon a god's service, you can rarely go back without performing some act of contrition. 
Whether your new god will accept you as a champion and what you might have to do to prove your commitment, is yet to be decided. (By the DM)
When you change gods, you lose all benefits granted by your old one, including rewards for piety and any other divine blessings. You no longer have a piety score to your old god, and your piety score to your new god starts at 1.