two closely related concepts loom large in the way mortals think about their place in the world: *Fate* and *Destiny*.

The idea of fate is that the course of each mortal's life is predetermined, spun out in a tapestry woven by a trio of semi-divine women, the Fates. Gods aren't bound by the strands of fate, their lives and legends constantly changing and endlessly uncertain. In the case of most mortals, it's thought they plod along their predetermined path from beginning to end, carrying out the tasks appointed for them until they complete their journey to the Underworld.

This fairly bleak view of existence is undermined by the heroic ideal exemplified in myths, legends and the lived experience of Theros's people. Heroes, by definition, are people who defy the predetermined course of fate. They take fate into their own hands and chart their own courses, striding boldly into the unknown, striking down supposedly invincible foes, and resisting the will of gods. 

Destiny is different. The strands of destiny are spun from the hair of the ancient god Klothys, but they don't chart a predetermined future. Destiny establishes the order of things, the hierarchy of being, the relationship between gods and mortals, the instincts and impulses that govern mortal behavior, and other aspects of the way things are. Gods and mortals alike are constrained by the treads destiny. Mortals can do little to alter them, but more than once the arrogance and presumption of the gods have caused the strands of destiny to become tangled. 

The god Klothys enforces the bounds of destiny. She isn't only yhe spinner of destiny's strands but also an avenging fury, punishing the foolhardy gods who tangle them.